0:01  
Good morning, everybody. Today is truly a historic day. For seven months, we have realized the greatest public private partnership in modern times. Doctors, scientists, researchers, factory workers, logisticians, and hundreds more have all come together for a singular purpose. That purpose, save lives and end the pandemic. We checked our egos at the door, we worked collectively to solve the problem. And we have achieved success, as with denta FIDE last night by the FDA when they approved a ua of the Pfizer vaccine.

0:42  
Now we'll begin distribution of safe and effective vaccines to the American people.

0:48  
You have heard me refer to today as D day. Some people assume that I meant day of distribution. In fact, the day in military designates the day the mission begins. D day was a pivotal turning point in World War Two. It was the beginning of the end. D day was the beginning of the end. And that's where we are today.

1:15  
But make no mistake, it was not the end, months and months of hard fought fought fought battles occurred. And it took diligence, courage and strength to eventually achieve victory. But victory did come. And while this moment is extraordinary in time, and I'm proud to be here, announcing where we are with distribution, we have a lot of work to do. We are not taking a victory lap. We know that the road ahead of us will be tough. We know that situations will occur. But we will figure it out together collectively, whole of America approach to solve the problems. At the end of the day. We have an excellent plan that has been well coordinated, well synchronised well rehearsed, and well collaborated with everybody from the total government through commercial industry down to the through the governor's at the states, I am very confident in it. With that said, Those who plan for perfection right in their plan will not be successful. We have to be able to see ourselves at all times and be able to execute adjustments accordingly. So what happens next, my guidance was to ensure this precious commodity is received by the train professionals at each state. We had to plan for the best outcome without knowing exactly when EA would occur. When the decision occurred last night, we immediately went into action and implemented our hourly and now our D day sequence. We implemented a sliding scale that allows us to ensure that everything is in place that people are positioned and ready accordingly.

3:14  
I expect the first shipments to arrive Monday morning. Extensive coordination will ensure that this occurs, we have worked with Pfizer, McKesson, UPS, FedEx, federal and local law enforcement agencies to ensure safety and security of the vaccine. Make no mistake distribution has begun. Right now boxes are being packed and loaded with vaccine with emphasis on quality control. Within the next 24 hours. They will begin moving vaccine from the Pfizer manufacturing facility to the UPS and FedEx hubs, and then it will go out to the 636 locations nationwide, which were identified by the states and territories. We expect 145 sites across all the states to receive vaccine on Monday, another 425 sites on Tuesday and the final 66 sites on Wednesday, which will complete the initial delivery of the Pfizer orders for vaccine.

4:30  
At the sites the vaccine will marry up with the ancillary kits that we've already distributed. These kits include needles, syringes, the pollutant and other supplies necessary to administer the shots.

4:45  
And we remain agile and adaptive to what the situation brings to us. As we work through many timezones many areas of concern. We will manage the distribution on a day to day

5:00  
process.

5:02  
It is only through the foundation established by the incredible experts of CDC. The capability and capacity of commercial industry, including Pfizer, McKesson, FedEx, UPS, Walgreens, CVS, and many others, and most importantly, the governor's Public Health Officers and health care communities, that this plan will be successful. because of the sheer energy, the whole of America approach, I am absolutely 100% confident that we are going to distribute safely, this precious commodity this vaccine needed to defeat the enemy COVID.

5:48  
Many of you want to know who will receive the first vaccine. And while I leave that up to the experts at the health and human services organization, I remind you of this, nearly 100,000 Americans have already rolled up their sleeves and participated in clinical trials across America. They were the true first recipients of the vaccine. They deserve our utmost respect and appreciation. Without them. We could not be here today, true American heroes. This is a monumental week for us all, as we distribute the first millions of doses of vaccines to the American people. But each week that follows, we will have more doses ready for allocation and distribution. We are also posturing for the phase two phase in modern a vaccine if they receive an EU A this is about a steady cadence of delivery to bring the American people to a place of confidence that vaccine is coming. We want to ensure the vaccine arrives safely and that it can be effectively administered once arrival occurs. It is so important that all vaccine that's available is utilized as a shot in an arm, and nothing is wasted. This is our sole focus. Every single day, every waking minute that we have. We know every day American lives are lost, more fall ill every day, more struggle with the circumstances of the pandemic. So while today we applaud everybody who's been a part of the team, part of the collaboration, part of the success that's brought us here today, we know that we are not done. We are not done until every American has access to the vaccine to every American that wants it receives it. This is our only goal. We work every day to achieve it. I ask all of us to be vigilant to understand what we're doing to collectively read about the vaccines to make decisions about the vaccine and your use of it accordingly. I think it'll be a wonderful time as we deliver more vaccines every day, and more and more people receive the vaccine.

8:20  
We'll be working hard the next couple of days to ensure these first shipments go very well. It is the foundation for all futures deliveries. I know you will have questions. So I commit to keep updates to you on a regular basis. Starting with Monday morning, as we go through an update on where we are operationally, I have 100% confidence that we will get the vaccines to the American people, and that it will be safe, and it will be secure when it arrives. So I want to say thanks to everybody for getting us here today. I want to say thanks for your time to listen to my comments. And now I'm ready for some questions that you may have. Thank you.

9:07  
JOHN Coleman with Times Magazine. JOHN, your line is open. Aparna, thank you for doing this briefing. Many of us who report on this know that the White House crushed the issue the way last night and that it had planned to do it this morning. Does it make any difference to you in terms of the way being issued late last night versus this morning? And in terms of actually delivering vaccine? No, as I alluded to in my comments, we we developed a plan, a sliding scale so to speak, so that when the vaccine became available through the UAE we were able to begin an immediate implementation. So as of last night when I got word we immediately went into our hourly updates so that we were making sure we were postured for the first

10:00  
Part of the morning's requirements. And then we had a checklist of things collectively, from the organization here down through Pfizer. McKesson that the vaccine arrives at a time period where people, the professionals are available to receive it, and then eventually administer it. So as the decision made, and I adjusted the sliding scale, hourly and daily, our ultimate goal was to get it there no later than Monday morning, through distribution. So as I speak today, right now, vaccines are being packaged with a lot of emphasis on the quality assurance. To that end, tomorrow morning, vaccines will start rolling, from manufacturing, to distribution hubs, and then Monday by Monday, vaccines will be received. Thank you.

10:59  
Our next question comes from Elizabeth Weiss from USA Today. Elizabeth, your line is open.

11:05  
taking my call. Um, two quick questions. One, has any vaccine actually been pre positioned? Or is everything still happening at the Kalamazoo manufacturing facility? And the provider agreements that providers have signed? Ask them for receipt possibility times Monday through Friday? Does that mean that vaccines can't be delivered Saturdays and Sundays? Thank you.

11:32  
So the first part, what was the first question? Oh, I'm sorry. So I had to just check your first question. So no vaccine was pre positioned. We did not want to presume UAE. What we did all of our rehearsals and our timing were

11:51  
dependent on EU a approval so that we could move out from there. Under no circumstances do we want to get ahead of the great FDA. And that decision making? what's key is, is that we're ready to go now that the vaccine has been approved with the UAE and wheels are in motion and vaccine will be in place, as I said, as early as Monday. So we're part two of your question is is what we're going to do is we're going to have a steady cadence of delivery of vaccines. And it's a drumbeat allocations will be provided to states. The initial allocations were provided several weeks ago. And that's what we're operating off of for the initial distribution. Now, every night allocations are allotted the states they order and vaccines will be going throughout the week to be delivered to everybody, as long as you're a provider, a role provider. Thank you.

12:50  
And just as a reminder, there will be one question per reporter please one question for our reporter. Our next question comes from Katie Thomas with the New York Times, Katie, your line is open.

13:02  
Hi, I'm wondering if in this first week shipment 2.9 million will go out? How do you plan to reach the goal by the end of the year with only weeks left of reaching 20 million pieces. So we work allocations based on what is actually available by the end of the week. Our our calculations believe that we're going to have 40 million doses by the end of the month. So what we're doing is, every week I get an update, I know exactly what has been approved by the FDA for final distribution. Those allocations are put into our type areas system. States allocate and tell us where they want us to distribute it to by location and by quantity. And then we execute through the great, steady effort by Pfizer, McKesson, FedEx and UPS, I feel confident that we can achieve the goal of what is available will be delivered to the American people. It's all dependent every week on the final approval of the vaccine availability by the FDA. So we stay in a rhythm to ensure we can meet that requirement. And we're working towards that. We'll have to tell you where we're at at the end of the month.

14:22  
Thank you.

14:25  
Our next question comes from Dan vergnano. Dan, your line is open.

14:30  
Hi, Dan pagano BuzzFeed news. Jerry printer. I wonder if you could say anything about when the first dose is or arrive at long term care facilities versus for healthcare workers. Do you see one happening before the other? Thanks very much.

14:44  
So as you know, we're working in support of the governors and the state's plans in execution. And we're delivering directly to the facilities where they have identified by the quantities they identified. I know

15:00  
For a fact, after speaking with many governors myself personally, and then taking state briefs from all the states, slash regions, including the federal agencies, that they both are going to several, many of them, not several, many of them are going to simultaneously do frontline health care workers, as well as long term health care facilities. It is a matter of, you know, allocation, and then how do they distribute accordingly so that they make sure that they get they take care of the term I would use as clumps in accordance with vaccine available. So the bluff is, is that numerous states have plans to do both simultaneously. And I think it could occur as early as the end of next week for sure.

16:00  
Thank you.

16:02  
Our next choice read in it medpage. Today, Joyce, your line is open. Hi, thanks for taking my call. I am at a hearing before the Senate discussing distribution of the vaccine.

16:18  
Senator Blumenthal from Connecticut asked about getting the vaccine to a Connecticut VA facility. And Wesley Wheeler from ups said, Yes, I believe we're assigned Connecticut. And we'll make sure it gets there are our UPS and FedEx assigned to particular states.

16:41  
So I don't know, in that they're designed to particular states. They're both running execution of vaccine through the equitable distribution of vaccines to all states, jurisdictions and major metropolitan cities. And so it is really about what requirements are and then how do they execute it. It's a great collaboration between UPS and FedEx. But there is no line in the United States that says FedEx has East Coast or UPS has the West Coast etc. It is about the operational execution of the vaccines that are available, and the requirement each day as it occurs. Thank you.

17:29  
Our next question comes from Tom how old Washington Times, Tom, your line is open.

17:34  
Hi, thanks for doing the call. I know the states told you where to send the vaccines, the initial shipments, can you just kind of paint a picture give us a flavor of what these sites look like? Are they big warehouses with ultra low freezers? or places where vans will take them straight to smaller sites? Can he just wear these boxes landing? Exactly. So one of the reasons why we regulated the flow of initial doses going out to America, because we do have capacity, capability and capacity to expand to pretty, pretty good volume. But one of the things that I wanted to ensure is that the vaccine initially on Monday, goes directly into ultra cold freezer capability. So the locations accordingly, vary everywhere from hospitals, to major hubs for distribution following. It's directed by the states or planned by the states and we execute To that end. Our goal, ultimately, is to make sure that we can deliver to all providers as the states identify. Matter of fact, I took a briefing this morning on the plan to achieve that. And we think as early as about three weeks from now, we can be delivering vaccines to all providers, as directed by the states, for example, to the local pharmacies, as they would like all the pharmacies that I've taken briefings from have capability and capacity to do ultra cold or manage it and as well as distributed. So I feel confident that as we do the initial shipments this week, and then hopefully following with the Medina vaccine, we will begin to blossom expansion of delivery to out the states to ensure greater access to the vaccine availability for everybody. Thank you.

19:44  
Our next question comes from john tozzi with Bloomberg News. I'm sorry, john, your line is open.

19:51  
Hi, thanks so much for taking the question. You said the operative word is withholding the second doses

20:00  
An additional 500,000 apply for kind of emergency reserves. What would

20:08  
make the government competent enough in the pie coming out of the manufacturers to change that calculation and potentially distribute more

20:20  
than more than more than half of bed kind of doses on hand? So, great question. So what we're doing is we've started manufacturing as early, as you know, June, maybe even a little bit earlier in May, as we really started the steps, you know, to get us to where we are today. It is a really,

20:42  
incredibly arduous process that is well regulated for all the right reasons. But it was necessary to start that long ago to be here today. And as we start today, availability of vaccine for both Pfizer and Madonna is why we're able to begin distribution and receipt as early as Monday. The reason why we're holding on to the second dose, as well as some reserve is that we don't have absolute

21:18  
confidence in the cadence, not because Pfizer or Madonna or the supporting manufacturers, and Phil finishes aren't diligent in their process. But it is such a delicate process. We want to ensure perfection in the vaccine. Because we don't want anything going into an arm.

21:41  
That would be a problem. So we are being very diligent, and only after the vaccines are approved, will I allocate doses accordingly? So your question, though, was when do I see that changing, you know, holding second dose, and reserve? First of all, reserve reserve is about being able to have flexibility, being able to be agile and adaptive to situations that occur, things that might happen in distribution, as we go along execution, so I can immediately get things to where it needs to be so that everybody has fair and equitable execution to the American people. I see reserves dwindling down every day as we move forward, more confidence in execution, more competence in administration and uptake, more confidence in the use of American people wanting the vaccine. My goal is to drive that down. Because we want no vaccines on a shelf. Doesn't matter how effective a vaccine is. If it's on a shelf, we want all vaccines available in the arm. Holding the second dose is just until we have ultimate confidence. And we built up stocks to ensure that we can get the American people their second dose. Right. The studies were based on second doses, the FDA approved a ua on a second dose. For me, it's a moral responsibility and obligation to make sure that second dose is available for the American people. And so what we've done is we've just held on to it. It's in our cadence for delivery 21 days later for Pfizer and 28 days later from Madonna, and the vaccine will be distributed immediately out to locations as it was the first dose was administered. So that's the plan right now. I think both the reserve and the second dose decisions. We'll get to more. We'll have more information over the next few weeks, somewhere middle January, middle February, I see a transition. Thank you.

24:02  
Two more questions.

24:04  
Our next question comes from CNBC. Meg, your line is open.

24:09  
Hi, thanks for taking my question. I'm wondering, we know it realistically vaccines, when they get shipped around the world, there might be some spoilage. I'm just wondering what kinds of estimates that you guys have taken into account for, you know how much spoilage or loss of vaccine there might be as this goes out, and how that's affecting your predictions for how many Americans will be able to get vaccinated, you know, right away.

24:37  
So I will assure you we have taken extreme precaution in execution and delivery of the vaccine early on in my decision making on how to deliver a vaccine. This was a vulnerability identified and the way to mitigate it was to bring in the ultimate professionals in execution. You know, from Pfizer and Merck

25:00  
Through McKesson, and then with FedEx, UPS and the major pharmacies, the these organizations know how to

25:11  
distribute and store the vaccine. Prior to administration. This is not new to them. They've done ultra cold chain storage, they've done multiple shots execution, they know how to manage it and administer it in the most safe and effective way. So yes, do I think something is going to occur? I do. Hence the reason why I maintain some reserve stocks so I could adjust and adapt and make sure the American people have access to the vaccine immediately, or as soon as I can get it there. Can't get it there. If I wish I had it. I needed to have it to make sure I could adapt to it. Thank you.

25:57  
Our last question comes from Armstrong with Bloomberg News.

26:03  
I'm wondering what commitments you all can make on the call today in terms of providing regular data updates on inventory and distribution as you work through the next several weeks, and making sure that those we get clear, state and jurisdiction based numbers for exactly how much vaccine is available and where it's going.

26:28  
Yeah, so I assure you that the states and jurisdictions know exactly how much vaccine is available to them, what's been allocated, and how it's going to be distributed. I have 100% confidence in the transparency To that end, vaccine becoming available every week, as I described earlier is, you know, we have estimates, but at the end of the day, it does not count until the FDA has approved that. And I will not allow those estimates to go forward for speculation, because I want people to focus on what is actually available, develop the plans and ensure that we're ready to administer it accordingly. We are going to share allocations of the jurisdictions next week, initially, but I would tell everybody, that the way we develop the system is we are not waiting for vaccines to batch up. We want a consistent flow of available approved vaccine to be distributed to the American people as soon as it's available. So the being able to manage an account for the numbers, right as we go forward, has to be very precise. And we've created the system to ensure that we can account for every number. And that at the end of the day can be held accountable to

28:04  
any scrutiny to that. And so I just tell you, I'm confident in it. I will share allocations as we distributed this week. But we're going to build every week on allocations as we have things available and we distribute it. Thank you

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
